I was like what wait have the Olympic
announcers been lying to me what's going
on here and that really shifted my
perspective this has been one of the
most useful lessons I've learned in my
career I stumbled onto springboard
diving I really loved it but I was
afraid of heights and I wanted to get
better at it and I was a perfectionist
and I thought that was going to help me
because in diving you're supposed to get
perfect tense well guess what I have my
most basic dive a front dive Pike you
just jump up touch your toes go in head
first I wanted to work on perfecting
that all practice and I I was working on
these tiny little adjustments that would
take me from a 6 and 1/2 to a seven and
not ever learning harder Dives and
failing to raise my degree of difficulty
and that really stunted my growth as a
diver until one day my coach Eric best
uh pulled me aside and he said you know
Adam there's no such thing as a perfect
10 and I was like what wait have the
Olympic announcers been lying to me when
they say a dive was done for perfect
tens what what what's going on here and
he said if you look at the rule book a
10 is for excellence there's no such
thing as a perfect dive and that really
shifted my perspective what we did then
was we said look I'm never going to get
a 10 on any dive what we have to do is
to calibrate what's a realistic goal for
each dive for you know front dive we
started aiming for sevens and I would
want to do 30 of them in practice and
when I did my third one and Eric said
that was a seven it's time to move on
when I was learning a much more
complicated uh front two and a half with
a full twist you do two flips 360 turn
and then a dive the first goal was we
want to do this for twos we we just want
to make it and then I got got a little
better at it we started aiming for fours
and fives on it and Steve I have to tell
you this has been one of the most useful
lessons I've learned in my career when I
start a project uh whether it's a book
or you know a podcast season or I'm
writing an oped the first thing I do is
I ask what is my target score here and
for a book it's a nine because I'm going
to pour two years of my work life into
this I hope a lot of people will read it
and it's going to be useful to them so
it really matters to do it about as well
as I can when I'm writing a post for
Instagram I'm pretty cont with a six and
a half just above getting canceled is is
my target there but that that
calibration is helpful because I could
spend all day crafting that Instagram
post and then I'll never get anything
done maybe part of the equation is to
think about the potential reward from
the investment thinking about the return
on effort is really valuable I think
about that Less in terms of like what's
the immediate reward for me and More in
terms of how can I have the greatest
impact for the investment of my time and
I think you're right like Instagram is a
it's a quick hit of dopamine and it
feels really great when you get a lot of
likes and you know enthusiastic comments
on a post and then it fades really fast
people ask questions about a book that I
wrote a decade ago nobody asked me about
my social media post from several years
ago and um I think podcasting actually
lives somewhere in between MH right when
we talk um sometimes ideas stick
actually there's some evidence that
audio is is more memorable um and more
intimate uh than what you pick up on the
page uh but I think it's a little more
fleeting I don't remember a conversation
I listened to from a few years ago the
same way I remember a book that changed
my world view and so I I put a little
bit more into writing than I do into
talking
[Music]