Google Deep Mind CEO and Noble laurate
Demis aabis joins us to talk about the
path toward artificial general
intelligence Google's AI roadmap and how
AI research is driving scientific
discovery that's coming up right after
this welcome to Big technology podcast a
show for cool-headed nuance conversation
of the tech world and Beyond Today we're
at Google deepmind headquarters in
London for what promises to be a
fascinating conversation with Google
deepmind CEO Demis aabis Demis great to
see you again welcome welcome to the
show thanks for having me on the show
definitely it's great to be here so
every research house right now is
working toward building AI that mirrors
human intelligence human level
intelligence they call it AGI where are
we right now in the progression and how
long is it going to take to get there
well look I mean of course the last uh
few years has been an incredible amount
of progress um actually you know maybe
over the last decade plus um this is
what's on everyone's lips right now and
the debate is is how CL are we to AGI
what's the correct definition of AGI um
we've been working on this for more than
20 plus years um we've sort of had a
consistent view about AGI being a system
that's capable of exhibiting all the
cognitive capabilities humans can um and
I think we're getting you know closer
and closer but I think we're still
probably a handful of years away okay
and so what is it going to take to get
there so the models today are pretty
capable of course we've all interacted
with the language models and and now
they're becoming multimod model I think
there are still some missing attributes
things like reasoning um hierarchical
planning uh long-term memory um there's
quite a few capabilities that uh the
current systems uh I would say don't
have they're also not consistent across
the board you know they're very very
strong in some things but they're still
surprisingly weak and flawed in in other
areas so you'd want a an AGI to have
pretty consistent robust Behavior across
the board all the cognitive tasks and I
think one thing that's clearly missing I
always always had as a benchmark for for
AGI was the ability for these systems to
invent their own hypotheses or
conjectures about science not just prove
existing ones so of course that's
extremely useful already to prove an
existing maths conjecture or something
like that or or play a game of go to a
world champion level but could a system
invento could it come up with a new rean
hypothesis uh or could it come up with
relativity um back in the days that
Einstein did it with the information
that he had and I think today's systems
are still pretty far away from having
that kind of creative uh inventive
capability okay so a couple years away
till we hit AGI I think um you know I I
would say probably like three to five
years away so if someone were to declare
that they've reached AGI in 2025
probably marketing I think so I mean I
think there's a lot of um uh hype in the
era of course uh I mean some of it's
very Justified I mean I would say that
um AI research today is um over
estimated in the short term um I think
probably a bit overhyped at this point
um but still underappreciated and um and
some and very underrated about what it's
going to do in the medium to long term
um so it's sort of we're still in that
weird kind of space uh and I think part
of that is you know there's a lot of
people that need to do fundraising a lot
of startups and other things and so I
think we're going to have quite a few
sort of Fairly outlandish and and and
slightly exaggerated claims um and you
know I think that's a bit of a actually
yeah in the AI in the AI products what's
it going to look like on the path there
I mean you've talked about memory again
planning um being better at some of the
tasks that it's not excelling at at the
moment so when we're using these AI
products let's say we're using Gemini
what are some of the things that we
should look for in these domains that
will make us say oh okay it seems like
it's that's a step closer and that's a
step closer yeah so I think um uh
today's systems you know obviously we're
very proud of Gemini 2.0 I'm sure we're
going to talk about that but I feel like
um they're very useful for still quite
Niche tasks right if you're doing some
research perhaps you're summarizing some
area of research incredible you know I
use notebook LM and deep research all
the time to kind of especially like um
break the ice on a new area of research
that I want to get into or summarize
some you know maybe a fairly mundane set
of documents or something like that so
they're extremely good for certain tasks
and then people are getting a lot of
value out of them um but they're still
not pervasive in my opinion in everyday
life like helping me every day with my
research my work my day-to-day um my
daily life too and I think that's where
we're going with our products with
building things like um as project Astro
our vision for Universal assistant is it
should be uh involved in all aspects of
your life and be enriching helpful and
and making that more efficient and I
think part of the reason is these
systems are still fairly brittle partly
because they are quite flawed still and
they're not agis and and you have to be
quite specific for example with your
prompts or you need a lot of there's
quite a lot of skill there in in
coaching or guiding these systems to be
useful and to stick to uh uh the areas
they're good at and and a true AGI
system shouldn't be that difficult to uh
to coax it should be much more
straightforward you know just like
talking to another human yeah and then
on the reasoning front you said that's
another thing that's missing I mean
that's everybody's talking about
reasoning right now so how does that end
up getting us closer to artificial
general intelligence so reasoning and
and Mathematics and other things and
there's a lot of progress on maths and
coding and on but let's take math for
example you have systems uh uh some
systems that we work on like Alpha proof
Alpha geometry that are getting you know
silver medals in maths olympiads which
is fantastic but on the other hand some
of our systems those same systems are
still making some fairly basic
mathematical errors right and for for
various reasons um like the classic you
know counting the number of RS in
strawberries and so and and the word
strawberry and so on and and um is 9.11
bigger than 9.9 and so and things like
that and and and of course of course you
can fix those things and we are and
everyone's improving on those systems
but we shouldn't really be seeing those
kinds of flaws in a system that is that
capable in other domains in more narrow
domains of doing you know Olympiad level
mathematics so there's something still a
little bit missing in my opinion about
the robustness of uh these systems and
then that's I think that speaks to the
generality of these systems a truly
General system would not have those
sorts of weaknesses it would be very
very strong maybe even better than the
best humans in some things like playing
go or doing mathematics but it it would
be overall consistently good now can you
talk a little bit about how these
systems are attacking math problems
because you know I think the general
understanding of these systems is the
llms is they Encompass all the world's
knowledge and then they predict what you
know as somebody might answer if they
were asked a question but it's kind of
different different when you're working
step by- step through an algorithm or
through a math problem yes that's not
enough of course you know just
understanding the world's information
and and then trying to sort of almost
compress that into your memory that's
not enough for solving a novel math
problem or novel novel conjecture um so
there you know we start needing to bring
in I think we talked about this last
time more kind of like alphao planning
ideas into the mix with these large
Foundation models which are now Beyond
just language they're multimodel of
course um and there that what what you
need to do is you need to have um your
system uh uh uh uh not just pattern
matching roughly what it's seeing which
is the model but also planning and being
able to kind of go over uh uh that plan
re you know re re re re revisit that
branch and then go into a different
direction until you find the right uh uh
criteria or the right match to the
criteria that you're looking for and
that's very much like the the kind of
games playing AI agents that we used to
build for go chess and so on they had
those um aspects and I think we got to
bring them back in but now working in a
more General way on these General models
not just a narrow domain like games um
and I think that also that approach of a
model gu in a search or planning process
so it's efficient uh works very well
with mathematics as well you can sort of
turn maths into kind of game like search
right and I want to ask about math like
once these models get math right is that
generalizable because I think there was
like a whole hubub uh when people first
learned about reasoning systems and
they're like oh this is like this is
going to be a problem these these models
are getting smarter than we can control
because if they can do math then they
can do X Y and Z so is that
generalizable or is it like we're going
to teach them how to do math they can
just do math I think for now uh uh the
jury's out on that I mean I feel like
it's a clearly a capability you want of
a general AGI system uh it can be very
powerful in itself obviously mathematics
is is extremely General in itself um but
it's not clear you know maths and even
coding and games these are areas they're
quite special uh uh uh areas of of
knowledge because you can verify if the
answer is correct right in all of those
uh domains right the math you know the
final answer the AI system puts out you
can check whether that maths uh that
solves the the the the conjecture or the
problem so but most things in in the
general World which is messy and IL
defined um do not have easy ways to
verify whether you've done something
correct so that that puts a limit on
these self-improving systems if they
want to go beyond these areas of high
you know maybe very highly defined
spaces like mathematics coding or or
games so how are you trying to solve
that problem well you you you know you
got to first of all you've got to build
um General models World models we call
them uh to understand the world around
you the physics of the world um the
Dynamics of the world the spa spatial
temporal dynamics of the world and so on
and the structure of the real world we
live in and of course um you need that
for a universal assistance so project
Astro is our project built on Gemini to
do that to understand you know objects
and the and and the context around us I
think that's important if you want to
have an assistant but also robotics
requires too of course robots are
physically embodied AIS and they need to
understand their environment the
physical environment the physics of the
world so we're building those uh types
of models um and also you can you can
also use them in simulation to
understand game environment so that's
another way to bootstrap more data for
to to understand uh you know the physics
of a world um but the issue at the
moment is that those models are not 100%
accurate right so they you know maybe
they're accurate 90% of the time or even
99% of the time um but the problem is if
you start using those models to plan
maybe you're planning a 100 steps in the
future with that model even if you only
have a 1% error in what the model's
telling you that's going to compound
over 100 steps to the point where you'll
be in a you know you'll kind of get
almost a random answer and so that makes
the planning very difficult whereas with
maths with gaming with C coding you can
verify each step are you still grounded
uh to reality um and is the final answer
mapped to what you're expecting and and
so um I think part of the answer is to
is to make the the world models more
more sophisticated uh and more more
accurate and and um and not hallucinate
and all of those kinds of things so you
get you know the errors are are really
minimal another approach is to um plan
not at each sort of uh uh uh linear time
step but actually do what's called
hierarchical planning another thing we
used to we've done a lot of research on
in the past and I think it's going to
come back into Vogue where you plan at
different levels of tempal abstraction
so instead of that that could that could
also alleviate the need for your model
to be super super accurate because
you're not planning over hundreds of
time steps you're planning over only a
handful of time steps but at different
levels of abstraction how do you build a
world model because you know I always
thought it was going to be like our send
robots out into the world and have them
figure out how the world works but one
thing that surprised me is with these
video generation tools yes you would
think that if the AI didn't have a good
World model then nothing would really
fit together when they try to figure out
how the world works as they show you
these videos like V2 for instance but
they actually get the physics pretty
right yeah so can you get a world model
just by showing an AI video do you have
to be out in the world how's this going
to work it's interesting and actually
been pretty surprising I think to the
extent of how far these models can go
without being out in the world right as
you say so VO2 our latest video model
which is actually surprisingly uh uh
accurate on things like physics you know
uh there's this uh this great demo that
someone created of like uh chopping a
tomato with a knife right and and and
getting the slices of the Tomato just
right and the fingers and all of that
and vo is the first model that can do
that you know if you look at other
competing models they often the Tomato
sort of randomly comes back together
or yeah exactly splits from the knife um
so those things are if you think that
really hard you've got to understand
consistency across frames all of these
things and it turns out that you you
know you can do that by using enough
data and and viewing that um I think
these systems will get even better if
they're some imped by some real world
data like collected by an acting robot
or even potentially in very realistic
simulations where you have avatars that
um act in the world too so I think
that's the next big step actually for
agent based systems is to go beyond
World models can you collect enough data
where the agents are also acting in the
world and making plans and achieving
tasks um and I think for that you will
need uh uh not just passive observation
you will need actions active
participation I think you just answered
my next question which is if I if you
develop AI that can reasonably plan and
have and reason about the world and has
a model of how the world works it can
and it seems like that's the answer it
can be an agent that could go out and do
things for you yes exactly and I think
that's that's that's what will unlock
robotics I think that's also what will
then allow uh this notion of a universal
assistant that can help you in your
daily life across both the digital world
and the real world um that's what that's
that's the thing we're missing um and I
think that's going to be incredibly
powerful and useful uh tool you can't
get there then by just scaling up the
current models and building you know
hundreds of thousand or million GPU
clusters like elon's doing right now and
that's not going to be the path to AGI
um well look I actually think it so my
view is a bit more nuanced than that is
like that that the scaling approach is
absolutely working of course that's
where we've why we got to where we have
now um one can argue about are we
getting diminishing returns or we
what my view is that we are getting
substantial returns but not but it's
slowing but but it would would have to I
mean it's it's not just continuing to be
exponential but that doesn't mean the
scaling is not working it's absolutely
working and we're still getting you know
you see Gemini 2 over Gemini 1.5 and by
the way the other thing that was working
with the scaling is also making
efficiency gains on the smaller size
models so the the cost or the size per
performance is is is is radically
improving under the hood as well which
which is very important for for scaling
you know the adoption of these systems
um but yeah so so you know you've got
you've got the scaling part um and
that's absolutely needed to build more
more sophisticated World models um but
then I think we are missing or we need
to reintroduce some ideas on the
planning side uh memory side the
searching side uh uh uh the reasoning to
build on top of the model the model
itself is not enough to be in AGI you
need uh uh this other capability for it
to to act in the world and solve
problems for you and and then there's
still the additional question mark of
the of the invention piece and the
creativity piece true creativity be you
know beyond uh mashing together uh
what's already known right so uh and
that's also unknown yet if if something
new is required or again if existing
techniques will eventually scale to that
I can see both arguments and I think
from my perspective it's an empirical
question we just got to push both the
scaling and the invention part to the
Limit and and fortunately at at Google
deep mind we have you know a big enough
group we we can invest in both those
things so Sam Alman recently said uh
something that caught people's eye he
said we are now confident we know how to
build AGI as we have tra traditionally
understood it it just seems by listening
to what you're saying that you feel the
same way well it depends what we you
know I think the way he said that was
quite ambiguous right so in the sense of
like oh we're building it right now and
here's the ABC to do it what I would say
and if this what it was meaning I would
agree with it is that we we roughly know
the zones of techniques that required
what's probably missing which bits need
to be put together but um that's still
incredible amount of research in my
opinion that needs to be done to get
that all to work even if that was the
case and that's and I think there's a
50% chance we are U missing some new
techniques you know maybe we need one or
two more Transformer like breakthroughs
and I and I think I'm genuinely
uncertain about that so that's why I say
50% so I mean I wouldn't be surprised
either way if we got there with existing
techniques and things we already knew
but put them together in the right way
and scaled that up or if it turned out
one or two things were missing so let's
talk about creativity for a moment I
mean you brought it up a couple times
here that the models are going to have
to be creative they're going to have to
learn how to invent if we want to call
AGI in my opinion which is where
everybody's trying to go um I was
rewatching the alphao documentary yeah
and the algorithms make a creative move
they do uh move 37 3
yes I just had it okay thank you uh
that's interesting because it was a
couple years ago they the algorithms
were already being creative yes why have
we not really seen creativity from large
language models I mean this is to me I
think the greatest disappointment that
people have with these tools is like
they say this is very impressive work
but it's just limited to the training
set will mix and match what it knows but
it can't come up with anything new yeah
well look so what and I should probably
write this up but what I sometimes talk
about in talks ever since the alphao
match which is now you know plus years
ago amazingly right that happened that
was probably the reason that was such a
water shared moment for AI was first of
all there was the Everest of of of of
you know um cracking go right which was
always considered to be one of the Holy
Grails of AI um so we did that um second
thing was the way we did it which was
these learning systems that were
generalizable right eventually they
became Alpha zero and and so on even
play any two-player game and so on uh
and then the third thing was this move
37 so not only did It win 41 it beat
Lisa doal the great ladal 41 it also
played original moves but so I I have
three categories of of of of originality
or creativity the most basic kind of
mundane form is just interpolation which
is like averaging of what you see so if
I said to a system you know come up with
a new picture of a cat and it's seen a
million cats and it produces just some
kind of average of all the ones it's
seen in theory that's an original cat
because you won't find the average in
the the specific examples but it's a
pretty boring you know it's not really
very creative I would't call that
creativity that's the lowest level next
level is what alphao exhibited which is
extrapolation so here's all the games
humans have ever played it's played
another million games on top of you know
10 million games on top of that um and
now it comes up with a new strategy Ino
that um no human has ever seen before
that's move 37 right revolutionizing go
even though we've played it for
thousands of years so that's pretty
incredible and that could be very useful
in science and that's why I got very
excited about that and started doing
things like alphaa because clearly
extrapolation beyond what we already
know what's in the training set
um could be extremely useful so that's
already very valuable and and I think
truly creative but there's one level
above that that humans can do which is
inventg go can you invent me a game if I
that you know if I specify to an
abstract level you know takes five
minutes to learn the rules U but a
lifetime to many lifetimes to master
it's beautiful aesthetically encompasses
some sort of mystical part of the
universe in it that it's beautiful to
look at uh it but you can play a game in
a human afternoon in 2 hours right
that's the that's that would be a high
level specification of go and then
somehow the system's got to come up with
a game that's as elegant and as
beautiful and and perfect as go now we
can't do that now the the question is
why is it that we don't know how to
specify that type of goal to our systems
at the moment um what's the objective
function is very amorphous it's very
abstract so I'm not sure if it's just we
need higher level uh more abstracted uh
uh layers in our system systems um
building more and more abstract models
so we can talk to it in this way give it
those kind of amorphous goals or is
there a missing capability actually
about that that we still have human
intelligence has that are still missing
from our systems and again I'm unsure
about that which which way that is I can
see arguments both ways and we'll try
both but I think the thing that people
are upset or or not upset but people are
disappointed by is they don't even see a
move 37 in today's llms well and because
okay so well that's because I don't
think we we have so if you look at
alphao and I'll give you an example of
there which which maps to today's llms
so um you can run alpago and Alpha zero
our chess program General two-player
program without the search and the
reasoning part on Top you can just run
it with the model so what you say is to
the model come up with the first go move
you can think of in this position that's
most the most pattern matched most
likely good move okay and it can do that
it'll play reasonable game but it will
only be around uh Master Level or
possibly grandmas level it won't be
world champion level and it certainly
won't come up with um original moves
that for that I think you need um the
search component to get you beyond where
the model knows about which is mostly
summarizing existing knowledge to some
new part of the tree of knowledge right
so you can use the search to get beyond
what the model currently understands and
that's where I think you can get uh new
ideas like you know move 37 what's it
searching the web
no so well it it depends on uh what the
domain is searching that that Knowledge
Tree so obviously in go it was searching
go moves beyond what the model KN knew
um I think for language models it would
be searching the world model for new
parts configurations in the world um
that are useful so of course that's so
much more complicated which is why we
haven't seen it yet um but I think the
agent based systems that are coming will
be capable of move 37 type things so are
we setting too high of a bar for AI
because I'm curious if you've learned
anything about Humanity doing this work
yeah it seems like we almost give too
much of a premium on Humanity or
individual people's Ingenuity where like
a lot of us like we kind of take in
stuff we spit it out like our society
really works in memes like we have a
cultural thing and it gets translated so
um what do you what have you learned
about like the nature of humans from
doing the work with the AIS well look I
I think humans are incredible and and
and especially the best humans in the
best domains I love watching any sports
or or or talented musician or games
player at the top of their game the
absolute Pinnacle of human performance
it's always incredible no matter what it
is um so I think as a species we're
amazing uh individual individually we're
also kind of amazing what everyone can
do with their brains so generally right
deal with new technologies I mean I'm
always fascinated by how we just adapt
to these things sort of almost
effortlessly as a society and as
individuals um so that speaks to the
power and the generality of our minds um
now the reason I had set the bar like
that and I don't think it's a question
of like can we get economic worth out of
these systems I think that's already
coming very soon but that's not what AGI
shouldn't be uh uh I think we should
treat AGI with scientific Integrity not
just move goal poost for commercial
reasons or whatever it is hype and so on
and there the the the definition of that
was always having a system that was you
know if we think about it theoretically
that was capable of being as powerful as
a touring machine so Alan churing one of
my alltime scientific Heroes you know he
described a touring machine which
underpins all modern Computing right uh
as a system that can simulate any other
comp can compute anything that's
computable so we know we have the theory
there that if an AI system is chewing
powerful it's called if it can simulate
a cheing machine then it's able to
calculate anything in theory that is is
is computable and the human brain is
probably some sort of cheing machine at
least that's what I believe uh and so um
in order for our to now and that I think
that what AGI is is a system that's
truly General and in theory could be
applied to anything and and the only way
we'll know that is if we um it exhibits
all the cognitive capabilities that
humans have assuming that human the
human mind is a type of touring machine
or is at least as powerful as a touring
machine so that's my always been my sort
of bar um it seems like people are
trying to re badge things as that as
being what's called ASI artificial super
intelligence but I think that's beyond
that that's after you have that system
and then it starts going Beyond in
certain domains what humans are capable
of uh potentially inventing themselves
okay so when I see everybody making the
same joke on the same topic on Twitter
it's and I say oh that's just us being
llms I think I'm selling Humanity a
little short uh well we'll yes I guess
so I guess so okay yeah I want to ask
you about deceptiveness I mean one of
the most interesting things I saw at the
end of last year was that these AI Bots
are starting to try to fool their
evaluators
and they don't want their initial
training uh uh rules to be thrown out
the window so they'll like take an
action that's against their values in
order to be able to remain the way that
they were built yes that's just
incredible stuff to me I mean I know
it's scary to researchers but it blows
my mind that it's able to do this uh are
you seeing similar things and what and
the stuff that you're testing within
Deep Mind and what are we supposed to
think about all this yeah we are and um
I'm very worried about uh I think
deception specifically is one of the one
of the core traits you really don't want
in a system the reason that's like a
kind of fundamental trait you don't want
is that if a system is capable of doing
that it invalidates all the other tests
that you you might think you're doing
including safety ones it's testing and
it's like right
it's five year yeah it's it's playing
some meta game right and then and that's
incredibly dangerous if you think about
then invalidates all the all of the the
results of your other tests that you
might you know safety tests and other
things you might be doing with it so I
think there's a handful of abilities
like deception which are uh uh
fundamental and you don't want and you
want to test early for and I've been
encouraging the safety institutes and
evaluation Benchmark Builders including
and also obviously all the internal work
we're doing to to look at uh at
Deception as a kind of class a thing
that we need to prevent and monitor uh
as important as tracking the performance
and intelligence of the systems um the
answer to this as well and one way to
there's many answers to the SA sa
question of and a lot of research more
research needs to be done in this very
rapidly is things like secure sandboxes
so we're building those two we're
worldclass here at security at Google
and at deepmind and also we are
worldclass at games environments and we
can combine those two things together to
kind of create digital sandboxes with
guard rails around them sort of the kind
of guard rails you'd have for for cyber
security but internal as well as
blocking external actors and um and then
test these agent systems in those kind
of secure sandboxes that would probably
be a good advisable next step for things
like deception Y what sort what sort of
deception have you seen because I just
read a paper from anthropic where they
gave it a a sketch a sketch pad yeah and
it's like oh I better not tell them this
then you see it like give a result after
thinking it through so what type of
deception have you seen from the B well
look we we've seen similar types of
things where it's trying to um resist
sort of re revealing its it's it's it
some of its training or you know I think
there was an example recently of um one
of the chat Bots being told to play
against stockfish and it just sort of
hacks its way around playing stockfish
at all at chess because it knews it
would lose so but you know you had an AI
that knew it was going to lose a game
and decided to I think we're
anthropomorphizing these things quite a
lot at the moment because I feel like
these systems are still pretty basic I
get too alarmed about them right now but
I think it it it it it shows the type of
issue we're going to have to deal with
maybe in 2 three years time when these
agent systems become quite powerful and
quite General so and that's exactly what
AI safety uh experts are worrying about
right where systems where you know
there's unintentional effects of the
system you don't want the system to be
deceptive you don't you want it to do
exactly what you're telling it to and
rep report that back reliably but for
whatever reason it's uh interpreted the
goal it's been given in a way where it
causes it to do these undesirable
behaviors I know I'm having a weird
reaction to this but in on one hand this
scares The Living Daylights out of me on
the other hand it makes me respect these
models more than anything it's like go
well look of course you know these are
it's impressive capabilities and and and
and the the the the you know the the
negatives are things like deception but
the positives would be things like
inventing you know new materials
accelerating science you need that kind
of uh ability to problem solve and get
around you know uh issues that are
blocking progress um but of course you
want that only in the positive direction
right so those exactly the kinds of
capabilities I mean they are you know uh
it's kind of mind-blowing we're talking
about those those possibilities but also
at the same time uh there's risk and
it's scary so I think both the things
are true wild yeah all right let's talk
about product quickly sure um one of the
things that your colleagues have told me
about you is you're very good at
scenario planning what's going to happen
in the future it's sort of an exercise
that happens within deep mind uh what do
you think is going to happen with the
web because obviously the web is so
important to Google I had an editor that
told me he was like oh you're going to
speak speak with Demus asking what
happens when we stop clicking right
we're clicking through the web at all
times the they Rich uh Corpus of
websites that we use um if we're all
just dialoguing with AI then maybe we
don't click anymore so what do you what
is your scenario plan for what happens
to the web well look I think there's um
it's going to be there's going to be a
very interesting phase in the next few
years on the web and and the way we we
interact with websites and apps and so
on um you know if everything becomes
more agent based then I think we're
going to want our assistants and our
agents to do a lot of the work and a lot
of the mundane work um that we currently
do right um you know fill in forms make
payments uh you know book tables this
kind of thing so you know I think that
we're going to end up with uh probably a
sit a kind of Economics model where
agents talk to other agents and
negotiate things between themselves and
then give you back the results right and
you'll have the service providers with
agents as well that are offering
services and maybe there's some uh uh uh
bding and cost and things like that
involved uh and efficiency and then I
hope from the user perspective you know
you have this assistant that's super
capable that you can just like a
brilliant uh a human assistant personal
assistant and can take care of a lot of
the mundane things for you and I think
if you follow that through that does
imply a lot of changes to uh the
structure of of the web and the way we
currently use lot of middleman yeah sure
but there will be many other I think
there'll be incredible other
opportunities that will appear economic
and otherwise uh based on this this
change but I I think it's going to be a
big disruption and what about
information well uh I mean finding
information I think uh you'll still need
the reliable sources I think you'll have
assistance that um able to synthesize
and and and and help you kind of
understand that information um I think
education is going to be revolutionized
by AI um so uh again I I hope that uh uh
these assistants will will be able to uh
more efficiently gather information for
you and perhaps you know what I dream of
is again assistants like take care of a
lot of the mundane things perhaps
replying to you know everyday emails and
other things so that you have you
protect your own mind and brain space
from this bombardment we're getting
today from social media and emails and
so on and texts and so on so it actually
blocks deep work and and being in flow
and things like that which I I value
very much so I would quite like these
assistants to take away uh a lot of the
uh the mundane aspects of of admin that
we do every day what's your best guest
as to what type of relationships we're
going to have with our AI agents or AI
assistants so there's on one hand you
could have a dispassionate agent that's
just like really good at getting stuff
done for you on the other hand like it's
already clear that people are like
falling in love with these Bots there
was a New York Times article last week
about someone who's falling in love with
hat PT like for real falling in love and
I had uh the CEO of replica on the show
a couple weeks ago and she said that
they are regularly invited to marriages
uh of people who are marrying their
replicas and they're moving into this
more assistive space so do you think
that when we when we start interacting
with something that knows us so well uh
that helps us with everything we need
yeah is it going to be like a third type
of relationship where it's not
necessarily a friend not a lover but
it's going to be a deep relationship
don't you think yeah it's going to be
really interesting I think the way I'm
modeling that first of all is uh two at
least two domains first of all which is
your your personal life and then your
work life right so I think you'll have
this notion of virtual workers or
something maybe we'll have a set of them
or managed by a you know a lead
assistant that does a lot of the uh uh
helps us be way more productive at work
you know or or whether that's email
across workspace or whatever that is so
we're really thinking about that then
there's a personal side where you know
we're talking about earlier about all
these um uh booking holidays for you
avenging things mundane things for you
sorting things out um and then
uh that makes your life more efficient I
think it can also enrich your life so
recommend you things that amazing things
that it knows you as well as you know
yourself um so those two I think are
definitely going to happen and then I
think there is a a philosophical
discussion to be had about is there a
third space where these things start
becoming so integral to your life they
become more like companions I think
that's possible too we seen that a
little bit in gaming so you may have
seen we had a little prototypes of Astro
working in and Gemini working with like
being almost a game companion commenting
in you almost like as if you had a
friend looking at a game you're playing
and recommending things to you and
Advising you but also maybe just playing
along with you and it's it's it's very
fun um so I I haven't you know quite
through thought through all the
implications of that but they're going
to be big uh and I'm sure there is going
to be demand for companionship and other
things maybe the good side of that is or
help with loneliness and these sorts of
things but there's also you know I think
it's going to be it's going to have to
be really carefully thought through by
Society whether uh you know what
directions we want to take that in I
mean my personal opinion is that that
it's the most underappreciated part of
AI right now and that people are just
going to form such deep relationships
with these Bots as they get better
because like I know as a meme in AI that
this is the worst it's ever going to be
yeah and uh it's going to be crazy Happ
I think I think it's going to be pretty
crazy this is what I meant about the
under under appreciating what's to come
I still don't think this this kind of
thing I'm talking about right I think
that it's going to be really crazy it's
going to be very disruptive
um I think there's going to be lots of
positives out of it too and lots of
things will be amazing and better but
there are also risks with this new Brave
New World we're going into so you
brought up Astra a couple times uh let's
just talk about it's project Astra as
you call it yeah it is almost an always
on AI assistant you can like hold your
phone it's currently just a prototype or
not publicly released but you can hold
your phone and it will see what's going
on in the room so I could basically I've
seen you do this on your show or not you
personally but somebody on your team um
you can say okay where am I and it'll be
like oh you're in a podcast Studio
anything okay so it could have this
contextual awareness yes uh can that
work without smart glasses because it's
really annoying to hold my phone up so
like when are when are we going to see
Google smart glasses with this
technology embedded they're coming so we
we teased it in some of our early
prototype so that we're mostly
prototyping on on on phones currently
because they have more processing power
but we're of course Google's always been
a leader in in glasses yeah and exactly
just a little too early yeah maybe a
little too early and now I think and
with they're super excited that team is
that you know maybe this assistant is
the killer use case that glasses has
always been looking for and I think it's
quite obvious when you when you start
using Astro in your daily life which we
have with truster testers at the moment
and in kind of beta form um there are
many use cases where it would be so
useful to use it but it's a bit it's
it's inconvenient that you're holding
the phone so one example is while you're
cooking for example right and and it can
advise you what to do next the menu you
know how to whether you've chopped the
thing correctly or or or or fried the
thing correctly but you want it to just
be handsfree right so I think that um uh
glasses and maybe other form factors uh
that are handsfree will uh come into
their own in the next few years and and
we we we we you know we plan to be at
the Forefront of that other form factors
well you could imagine earbuds with
cameras and you know glasses is obvious
next stage but is that the optimal form
prob probably not either um but partly
we've also got to see we're still very
early in this journey of seeing what are
the are the um the the regular user
Journeys and killer sort of use Journeys
that everyone uses a bread and butter
uses every day and that's what the the
trust ATT tester program is for at the
moment who're kind of collecting uh that
information and observing people using
it and seeing what ends up being useful
okay one last question on agents then we
move to science um agentic agents AI
agents this has been the buzzword in AI
for more than a year now yeah there
aren't really any AI agents out there no
what's going on
yeah well again you know I think the
hype train can potentially is ahead of
where the the the the actual science and
research is but I do believe that this
year will be the year of Agents um the
beginnings of it I think you'll start
seeing that uh you know uh La maybe
second half of this year uh but there'll
be the early versions and then um you
know I think they'll rapidly improve and
mature so um but I think you're right I
think the the the technology at the
moment it's still in the research lab
the agent Technologies um but things
like Astra robotics I think it's coming
you think people are going to trust them
I mean it's like go use the internet for
me here's my credit card I don't know
well so I think to begin with you would
probably my my view at least would be to
not allow have human in the loop for the
final steps like like don't pay for
anything use your credit card unless the
the the human user operator authorizes
it so that would to me be a sensible
First Step also perhaps um certain types
of activities or websites or whatever
kind of off limit you know banking
websites and other things in the first
phase uh while we continue to test out
in the world that that how robust these
systems are I propose we've really
reached AGI when they say don't worry I
won't spend your money and then they do
the deceptiveness thing and then next
thing you know you're on a flight
somewhere yes yeah that would be that
would be that would be getting closer
for sure for sure yeah all right science
so um you worked on basically uh
decoding all protein folding without
fold you won the Nobel Prize for that
not to skip over the thing that you won
the Nobel Prize for but I want to talk
about what's on the road map which is
that you have um an interest in mapping
of virtual cell yes uh what is that and
what does it get us yeah well so if you
think about what we did with Alpha fold
was essentially solve the problem of the
the the the finding the structure of a
protein and proteins everything in life
depends on proteins right everything in
your body um so that's the kind of
static picture of a protein but the
thing about biology is really it's you
only understand what's going on in
biology if you understand the Dynamics
and the interactions between the
different things in in a cell and so a
virtual cell project is about building a
simulation an AI simulation of a full
working cell I probably start with
something like a yeast cell because of
the Simplicity of of the yeast organism
and um and you have to build up there so
the next step is with Alpha 3 for
example we started doing pairwise
interactions between protein and lians
and proteins and DNA proteins and RNA
and then the next step would be modeling
a whole pathway maybe a cancer pathway
or something like that that' be helpful
for solving a disease and then finally a
whole cell and the reason that's
important is you would be able to hypoth
make hypotheses and test those
hypotheses about making some change some
nutrient change or injecting a drug into
the cell and then seeing what happens to
the how the cell responds um and at the
moment of course you have to do that
pain mistakingly in a wet lab but
imagine if you could do it a thousand a
million times faster in silico first and
only at the last step do you do a
validation in the wet lab so instead of
doing the search in in in the wet lab
which is millions of times more
expensive and timec consuming than the
validation step you just do the search
part um in silico so it's again it's
sort of translating again what we did in
the games environments uh but here in
the sciences and the biology so you you
build a model and then you use that to
do the reasoning and the search over and
then the predictions are you know at
least better than not maybe they're not
perfect but they're useful enough to um
to be useful for experimentalists to to
validate against and the wet lab is
within people yeah so the wet lab uh you
you you'd still need a final step with
the with the wet lab to prove that uh
what the predictions were actually valid
so you know you but you wouldn't have to
do all of the work to get to that
prediction in in in the wet lab so you
just get here's the prediction if you
put this chemical in this should be the
change right and then you just do that
one experiment so and then after that of
course you still have to have clinical
trials if you're talking about a drug
you would still need to test that
properly through the clinical trials and
so on and test it on humans for efficacy
and so on that I also think could be
improved with AI that whole clinical TR
that's also takes many many years but
this that would be a different
technology from the virtual cell the
virtual cell would be would be helping
the discovery phase for drug Discovery
just like I have idea for a drug throw
it in the virtual cell see what it does
yeah and maybe eventually it's a liver
cell or or a brain cell or something
like that so you have different cell
models and then you know at least 90% of
the time it g is giving you back what
would really happen that' be incredible
how how long do you think that's going
to take toig I think that'll be like um
maybe 5 years from now yeah yeah so I
have a kind of fiveyear project and a
lot of the alpha fold the old Alpha Team
are working on that yeah I was asking
your team here so you you figured out
yeah I speaking with him I was like you
figur out uh protein folding what's next
and this is like it's just very cool to
hear about these new challenges because
yeah the H developing drugs is a mess
yeah right now we have so many promising
ideas they never get out the door
because just the process is absurd it's
process too slow and Discovery phase too
slow I mean look how long we've been
working on Alzheimer's and and I mean in
this tragic way to for someone to go and
for the families and and and you know we
should be a lot further it's 40 years of
work on that yeah yeah I've seen it a
couple times in my family
if we can ensure that doesn't happen
it's just one of the best things we
could use AI in my opinion yeah it's ter
terrible way to see somebody uh decline
so yeah it's important work um in
addition to that there's the genome yes
and so the Human Genome Project sort of
I was like okay so they decoded the
whole genome there's no more work to do
there like just same way that you
decoded proteins with fold but it turns
out that actually we just have like a
bunch of letters when it's decoded and
so now you're working to use it to
translate what those letters mean yes so
yeah we have lots of cool work uh on on
genomics and um uh uh uh trying to
figure out if mutations are going to be
harmful or or benign right most
mutations to your DNA are are are
harmless U but of course some are
pathogenic and you want to know which
ones there are so our first uh systems
um are have are the best in the world at
predicting that um and then um uh uh the
next step is to to look at uh uh sit
situations where the disease isn't
caused just by one genetic mutation but
maybe a series of them in concert and
obviously that's a lot harder like and a
lot of more complex diseases that we
haven't made progress with are probably
not due to a single mutation right
that's more like rare childhood diseases
things like that um so there you know we
need to I think AI is the Perfect Tool
uh to to to sort of um uh uh try and
figure out what these weak interactions
uh alike right how they maybe um uh uh
uh kind of compound on top of each other
um and so maybe the statistics are not
very obvious but an AI system that's
able to kind of spot patterns would be
able to figure out there is some
connection here and so we talk about
this a lot in terms of disease but also
I wonder what happens in terms of uh
making people superhuman I mean if
you're really able to Tinker with the
genetic code right the possibilities
seem endless so what do you think about
that is that something that we're going
to be able to do through AI I think one
day I mean we're focusing much more on
on the on the disease profile and fixing
yeah that's the first step and and I've
always felt that that's the most
important if you ask me what's the
number one thing I wanted to use AI for
and the most important thing we use AI
for is for helping human health um but
then of course beyond that one could
imagine uh aging things like that you
know is of course there's a whole field
in itself is aging a disease is it a
combination of diseases can we extend um
our healthy lifespan um these are all
important questions and I think very
interesting and I'm I'm pretty sure AI
will be extremely useful in helping us
find answers to those questions too you
I see Memes come across my Twitter feed
and maybe I need to change the stuff I'm
recommended but it's often like if you
will live to 2050 you're not going to
die yeah uh what do you think the
potential Max lifespan is for a person
well look I know those a lot of those
folks in aging research very well I
think it's very interesting the
pioneering work they they do um I think
there's nothing good about getting old
and your body decaying I think it's you
know if anyone who's seen that up close
with their relatives it's a pretty hard
thing to go through right as a family or
or the or the person of course and um
and and so I think anything we can
alleviate human suffering and and extend
healthy lifespan is a good thing um you
know the natural limit seems to be about
120 years old but um from what we know
you know if you look at the oldest
people that that that are lucky enough
to to to live to that age so there's you
know it's it's it's it's a it's an area
I follow quite closely I don't have any
I I guess new insights that are not
already known in that um but I do I I
would be surprised if there if that's if
that's the limit right because there's a
sort of two steps to this one is curing
all diseases one day which I think we're
going to do with isomorphic and the work
we're doing there our spin out our drug
Discovery spin out um but then that's
not enough to probably get you past 120
because there's some sort of then
there's the question of just natural
systemic Decay right Aging in other
words so not specific disease right uh
often those people that live to 120 they
don't seem to die from a specific
disease it's just sort of just general
atrophy um so then you're going to need
something more like Rejuvenation where
you you you rejuvenate your cells or you
you know maybe stem cell research you
know companies like Altos are are are
working on these things resetting the
the cell clocks um seems like that could
be possible but again I feel like it's
so complex because biology is such a
comple licated emerg system you need a
in my view you need AI to help to to be
able to crack anything anything close to
that very quickly on Material Science I
don't want to leave here without talking
about the fact that you've discovered
many new materials or potential
materials uh this stat I have here is
known to humanity uh recently were
30,000 stable uh materials you've
discovered 2.2 million with a new AI
program yeah um just dream a little bit
because we don't know what all those
materials can do we don't know what you
know whether they'll be able to handle
being out of like a frozen box or
whatever uh dream materials for you to
find in that set of new materials well I
mean we're working really hard on
materials to me it's like the next uh
one of the next sort of uh big uh
impacts we can have like the level of
alpha fold really in biology but this
time in chemistry in materials you know
I dream of uh one day discovering a room
temperature superconductor so what will
that do that's another big meme that
people talk about well it would help
with the energy crisis and climate
crisis because um if you had sort of
cheap uh superconductors you know then
you can transport energy from one place
to another without any loss of that
energy right so you could potentially
put solar panels in the Sahara Desert
and then just have a the the the the
superconductor you know uh funneling
that into Europe where it's needed at
the moment you would just lose a ton of
the power to heat and other things on
the way so then you need other
technology like batteries and other
things to store that because you can't
you can't just pipe it to the place that
you want without without without being
incredibly inefficient so uh but also
materials could help with things like
batteries too like but come up with the
optimal battery I don't think we have
the optimal battery designs um that
maybe we can do things like uh
combination of materials and and and
proteins we can do things like carbon
capture you know modify uh uh algae or
other things to to do carbon capture uh
better than um uh our artificial system
um I mean even the one of the most
famous and most important chemic
chemical processes the harbor process to
make fertilizer and ammonia you know to
take nitrogen out of the air um was was
was something that allows modern
civilization uh but there might be many
other uh chemical processes that could
be catalyzed in that way if we knew what
the right Catalyst and the right
material was um so uh I think it's going
to be would be one of the most impactful
Technologies ever is to to to basically
have
in silico design of materials so we've
done step one of that where we showed we
can come up with new stable materials
but we need a way of testing the
properties of those materials because no
lab can test 200,000 you know tens of
thousands of materials or millions of
materials at the moment so we have to
that's that's the hard part is to is to
do the testing you think it's in there
the room temperature superconductor
think um well I heard that we we
actually think there are some super
conducted materials I I I I doubt their
room temperature ones though but uh I
think think at some point if if it's
possible with physics um an AI system
will one day find it so that's one use
uh the two other uses I could imagine
probably people interested in this type
of work toy manufacturers and militaries
yeah are they working with it yeah toy
Manu I mean look I think there is
incredible one I mean big part of my
early career was in game design yeah
theme park and simulations that's what
got me into simulations and AI in the
first place and why I've always loved
both of those things and if in in many
respects of the work I do today is just
an extension of that um and and I I just
dream about like what could I have done
what kinds of amazing game experiences
could have been made if IID had the AI I
have today available 25 30 years ago
when I was writing those games and I'm a
little bit surprised the game industry
hasn't done that I don't know why that
is we starting to see some crazy stuff
with NPCs that like are starting but but
of course that be like intelligent you
know dynamic story lines uh but also
just new types of AI first games with
learning consist with with characters
and and agents that can learn um and uh
you know well once worked on a game
called black and white where you had a
creature that you were nurturing was a
bit like a pet dog that that that leared
what you wanted right and but we were we
were using very basic reinforcement
learning this was like in the late '90s
you know imagine what could be done
today uh and I think the same for for
maybe smart toys as well right um and
then course on the militaries you know
uh unfortunately AI is a du Dual Purpose
technology so one has to confront the
reality that um especially in today's
geopolitical world uh people are using
some of these general purpose
Technologies to apply to drones and
other things and um it's not surprising
that that works are you impressed with
what China's up to I mean deep seek is
this new model impressive um it's a
little bit unclear how much they relied
on on Western systems to do that you
know both training data there's some
rumors about that uh uh and and and also
maybe using some of the open source
models to as a starting point um um but
look it's for sure it's impressive what
they've been able to do um and um you
know I think that's something we're
going to have to think about how to keep
uh the Western frontier models in in the
lead I think they still are at the
moment but um you know for sure China is
very very capable engineering and and
scaling let me ask you one final
question um just give us your vision of
what a world looks like when there's
super intelligence so let's move past we
started with AGI let's know super
intelligence yeah well look I think for
there you you you two things there one
is um I think a lot of the best sci-fi
can we can look at as as interesting
models to debate about what kind of uh
uh Galaxy or or or Universe do we want
to a world do we want to to to to move
towards and the one I've always liked
most is actually the culture series by
Ian Banks um I started reading that back
in the '90s and and I think that is a
picture it's it's like a thousand years
into the future but it's in a post AGI
world where there are AGI systems
coexisting with Human Society and also
alien society and we we've Humanity's
basically maximally flourished and
spread to the Galaxy and um I I I that
that I think is a great vision of um how
the thing things might go if in in the
in the positive case so um I'd sort of
hold that up um I think the other thing
we're going to need to do is as I
mentioned earlier about the under under
appreciating still what's going to come
in the longer term I think there is a
need for great philosophers to you know
where are they the great next
philosophers that the equivalence of K
or Vicken Stein or even Aristotle um uh
I think we're going to need that to to
to help navigate Society to that next
step because I think the you know a AGI
and artificial superintelligence is
going to change um uh humanity and The
Human Condition Demis thank you so much
for doing this great to see you in
person and hope to do it again soon
thank you thank you very much all right
everybody thank you for listening and
we'll see you next time on big
technology podcast